In this lesson we're going to be looking at hoisting.
So basically javascript allows a variable to be declared after it's already been used.
So let's say for instance I want to console log out and I own a console log the value of A.
And then here is where I'm actually going to declare what A is going to output.
So let's refresh.
Do you think I'm going to throw an error here what do you think is going to happen.
And if I refresh it we get the value of undefined but notice that we don't get a value.
If we did something like B then we're actually going to throw an error.
So this basically means that javascript is aware of that.
This variable is being declared.
But at this point over here it doesn't have a value yet assigned to it.
So that's why it's returning back on defined.
And that's what's basically happening and this is the way that javascript works.
So actually when javascript gets rendered within the browser it actually has already been run through
one time.
So javascript in the browser will make two passes through your javascript the first one it will take
a look and it will see all of the variables that get declared and then do a second run through and actually
execute the code.
And this is what we mean when we look at hoisting because this gives us the ability to declare variables
anywhere within the script.
And now most of the time you are going to declare your variables at the top but this is just something
to be aware of in case you're trying to use variables within your code and you're placing them within
the code and you're not placing them at the top or the beginning of the script.
So let's show another example and let's try one of those self invoking functions.
And from here we're going to call that same variable.
And this time we're going to simply try to output that variable value and then we're going to declare
it within the function as well.
So let's go it and try this out.
So paused the video and looked back a few lessons where we looked at those self invoking functions and
create one of those and then set a variable within there and then also console log that variable before
we actually set it within the function.
So go ahead and try that.
So to create a self invoking function would do the function.
And then we need to do the two empty parentheses down there at the bottom.
So the objective here was to use console log.
So similar to what we did outside where we can do the value of b and then let's declare b down here
and B is great.
So what do you think is going to happen now.
So when I refreshed and we see that it actually works the same way.
So it works for globally and it also works for locally.
So what actually happens if we don't log out a.
So what we think is going to happen here and we see that same thing happens.
So you can declare your functions anywhere within the scope.
So if it's locally you can declare locally and if it's globally you can declare it globally and then
you can also try to access them and all you're going to get is undefined so always think about the order
that the content is being output in and try to keep your variables and your declarations at the top
because that's just going to be easier to work with especially if you've got a really long script.